# JustJavascript Notes

## Main concepts
- Primitive values are immutable  
- Non-primitive values (objects) are mutable
  - AKA they can be created (but not destroyed... instead the "garbage" gets cleared eventually but we don't have control over when)

## Equality of Values
I knew about strict equals (`===`) and loose equals (`==`) but I hadn't heard of Same Value Equality (`Object.is(a, b)`) before. The latter returns a boolean if two given values are the same value or not.

`===` and `Object.is(a, b)` are virtually the same _except_ with `NaN` and `-0`

## Properties
Properties _belong_ to a particular object. Properties don't _contain_ values, the _point_ to them!

When the property is assigned matters; AKA the order of execution matters.

Properties can be infinitely pointing back to the same object, but that must be assigned outside the object declaration. 
  > Assignment happens in three steps: (1) find the wire on the left, (2) find the value on the right, (3) point the wire to that value.

## Mutation
This is where the mapping and wires get important to visualize. 

Mutation `===` Change

This is where `let` vs `const` comes in! 
- `const` creates read only variables - these cannot be pointed to a new value, however in the case of objects the _object's values_ can be mutated 

The examples going over object mutation were a bit challenging to wrap my head around, but practicing using the wires and visuals are helpful! 

## Prototypes
Can tell JS to continue searching for our missing property on a different object by adding `__proto__: other-object` as a property to the child object 

Once the property is found, the search is stopped, regardless if there is a `__proto__` 

There's a default Object Prototype on every JS object, which is where the "built-in" methods come in. This object can be manipulated as well. 

Mutating a shared prototype is called prototype pollution.

Prototypes vs. `__proto__` - this concept is related to how/why JS added classes and the `new` keyword - comparison [here](https://gist.github.com/gaearon/a25fd42a1e6b4cc24851978df0a36571)
