# Process for Getting Changelogger into each of the TEC Plugins

## Outline of strategy: 
- Merge all global file changes into the `/actions` repo
- For each plugin, merge the `/actions` PR from directly into master
- For each plugin, create a new PR that will add the composer and package changes specific to each plugin

## Details 
#### Add Global Files to Actions Repo
1. Clone the actions repo locally
2. Create a new branch with the changes you want in all files
   - All the changes need to be mapped out in the `.github/sync.yml` file with the source (where the new file is in the actions repo) and destination (where the file should be saved in each plugin repo)
3. Push the branch to a PR, review, and when merged it will open a PR on each of the plugins

#### Merge PRs from above into each plugin
1. First, you need to trigger a change in php for tests to run in order to merge. 
2. Navigate your terminal to the right plugin's directory 
3. Use this command to checkout the correct branch: `gh pr checkout [number of PR]`
4. Find a small place in a php file to make a change in a docblock (like fixing a typo or removing an unneeded line break, etc.).
5. Once all the required tests are passing, review the files, approve the PR, and then merge into master. 

#### Open and Merge PR specific to plugin to add the composer and package changes 
1. Make sure you have pulled the changes that you just merged into master 
2. Create a new branch with `git checkout -b changelogger-[plugin you're changing]`
3. Make sure that the repo has a `changelog.md` file (if it has a `.txt` file change it to `.md` and if there is no file (common) then make one).
4. In the `composer.json` file add `"automattic/jetpack-changelogger": "^4.2"` to the end of the `required-devs` 
5. also add the following after the `"allow-plugins"` section:
```json
 "extra": {
    "changelogger": {
      "changelog": "changelog.md",
      "types": {
        "version" : "Version",
        "feat" : "Feature",
        "tweak" : "Tweak",
        "fix" : "Fix",
        "performance" : "Performance",
        "security" : "Security",
        "accessibility" : "Accessibility",
        "compatibility" : "Compatibility",
        "deprecated" : "Deprecated",
        "language" : "Language"
      },
      "formatter": {
        "filename": "bin/class-tec-changelog-formatter.php"
      },
      "changes-dir": "changelog"
    }
  },
```
6. In the `package.json` file add `"changelog": "./vendor/bin/changelogger add"` after `glotpress` in the  "scripts" object.
7. Run `composer update --lock` to make sure the changes are added.
8. Add and push changes to create a PR, get reviewed, and merge! 
9. Test that the changelogger is working by running `npm run changelog` 

## Other Troubleshooting Notes
_Delay because something is not loading correctly on my dev site_
- Seems to boil down to files missing in TEC `/vendor` (specifically `php-date-formatter/js`)
- This looks like not being able to successfully add a ticket to an event.
- My best guess is that I changed something when I was getting the changelogger set up in TEC
- Posted in #tec-dev [here](https://lw.slack.com/archives/C01H7Q57P1C/p1720736244444879)
- Stephen was super helpful! Turns out running `composer dumpautoload` in TEC's common was the solution here. 

## New Project - Dokus Site for Building a Site from the Ground UP
- Used instructions from here - https://learn.stellarwp.com/topics/setting-up-your-first-site/ 